
Problem Statement 2
Agentic Honey-Pot for Scam Detection & Intelligence Extraction
1. Introduction
Online scams such as bank fraud, UPI fraud, phishing, and fake offers are becoming increasingly adaptive. Scammers change their tactics based on user responses, making traditional detection systems ineffective.
This challenge requires participants to build an Agentic Honey-Pot — an AI-powered system that detects scam intent and autonomously engages scammers to extract useful intelligence without revealing detection.
2. Objective
Design and deploy an AI-driven honeypot system that can:
* Detect scam or fraudulent messages
* Activate an autonomous AI Agent
* Maintain a believable human-like persona
* Handle multi-turn conversations
* Extract scam-related intelligence
* Return structured results via an API
3. What You Need to Build
Participants must deploy a public REST API that:
* Accepts incoming message events
* Detects scam intent
* Hands control to an AI Agent
* Engages scammers autonomously
* Extracts actionable intelligence
* Returns a structured JSON response
* Secures access using an API key


4. API Authentication
* x-api-key: YOUR_SECRET_API_KEY
* Content-Type: application/json
5. Evaluation Flow
1. Platform sends a suspected scam message
2. Your system analyzes the message
3. If scam intent is detected, the AI Agent is activated
4. The Agent continues the conversation
5. Intelligence is extracted and returned
6. Performance is evaluated
6. API Request Format (Input)
Each API request represents one incoming message in a conversation.
6.1 First Message (Start of Conversation)
This is the initial message sent by a suspected scammer. There is no prior conversation history.
{
“sessionId”: “wertyu-dfghj-ertyui”,
  "message": {
    "sender": "scammer",
    "text": "Your bank account will be blocked today. Verify immediately.",
    "timestamp": "2026-01-21T10:15:30Z"
  },
  "conversationHistory": [],
  "metadata": {
    "channel": "SMS",
    "language": "English",
    "locale": "IN"
  }
}
6.2 Second Message (Follow-Up Message)
This request represents a continuation of the same conversation.
Previous messages are now included in conversationHistory.
{
“sessionId”: “wertyu-dfghj-ertyui”,
  "message": {
    "sender": "scammer",
    "text": "Share your UPI ID to avoid account suspension.",
    "timestamp": "2026-01-21T10:17:10Z"
  },
  "conversationHistory": [
    {
      "sender": "scammer",
      "text": "Your bank account will be blocked today. Verify immediately.",
      "timestamp": "2026-01-21T10:15:30Z"
    },
    {
      "sender": "user",
      "text": "Why will my account be blocked?",
      "timestamp": "2026-01-21T10:16:10Z"
    }
  ],
  "metadata": {
    "channel": "SMS",
    "language": "English",
    "locale": "IN"
  }
}
6.3 Request Body Field Explanation
message (Required)
The latest incoming message in the conversation.
Field
	Description
	sender
	scammer or user
	text
	Message content
	timestamp
	ISO-8601 format
	conversationHistory (Optional)
All previous messages in the same conversation.
* Empty array ([]) for first message
* Required for follow-up messages


metadata (Optional but Recommended)
Field
	Description
	channel
	SMS / WhatsApp / Email / Chat
	language
	Language used
	locale
	Country or region
	7. Agent Behavior Expectations
The AI Agent must:
* Handle multi-turn conversations
* Adapt responses dynamically
* Avoid revealing scam detection
* Behave like a real human
* Perform self-correction if needed
8. Expected Output Format (Response)
{
  "status": "success",
  "scamDetected": true,
  "engagementMetrics": {
    "engagementDurationSeconds": 420,
    "totalMessagesExchanged": 18
  },
  "extractedIntelligence": {
    "bankAccounts": ["XXXX-XXXX-XXXX"],
    "upiIds": ["scammer@upi"],
    "phishingLinks": ["http://malicious-link.example"]
  },
  "agentNotes": "Scammer used urgency tactics and payment redirection"
}
9. Evaluation Criteria
* Scam detection accuracy
* Quality of agentic engagement
* Intelligence extraction
* API stability and response time
* Ethical behavior
10. Constraints & Ethics
* ❌ No impersonation of real individuals
* ❌ No illegal instructions
* ❌ No harassment
* ✅ Responsible data handling
11. One-Line Summary
Build an AI-powered agentic honeypot API that detects scam messages, handles multi-turn conversations, and extracts scam intelligence without exposing detection.
12. Mandatory Final Result Callback (Very Important)
Once the system detects scam intent and the AI Agent completes the engagement, participants must send the final extracted intelligence to the GUVI evaluation endpoint.
This is mandatory for evaluation.
Callback Endpoint
POST https://hackathon.guvi.in/api/updateHoneyPotFinalResult
Content-Type: application/json
Payload to Send
Participants must send the following JSON payload to the above endpoint:
{
  "sessionId": "abc123-session-id",
  "scamDetected": true,
  "totalMessagesExchanged": 18,
  "extractedIntelligence": {
    "bankAccounts": ["XXXX-XXXX-XXXX"],
    "upiIds": ["scammer@upi"],
    "phishingLinks": ["http://malicious-link.example"],
    "phoneNumbers": ["+91XXXXXXXXXX"],
    "suspiciousKeywords": ["urgent", "verify now", "account blocked"]
  },
  "agentNotes": "Scammer used urgency tactics and payment redirection"
}
🧠 When Should This Be Sent?
You must send this only after:
1. Scam intent is confirmed (scamDetected = true)
2. The AI Agent has completed sufficient engagement
3. Intelligence extraction is finished
This should be treated as the final step of the conversation lifecycle.
________________


🧩 Field Explanation
Field
	Description
	sessionId
	Unique session ID received from the platform for this conversation
	scamDetected
	Whether scam intent was confirmed
	totalMessagesExchanged
	Total number of messages exchanged in the session
	extractedIntelligence
	All intelligence gathered by the agent
	agentNotes
	Summary of scammer behavior
	⚠️ Important Rules
* This callback is mandatory for scoring
* If this API call is not made, the solution cannot be evaluated
* The platform uses this data to measure:
   * Engagement depth
   * Intelligence quality
   * Agent effectiveness
💻 Example Implementation (Python)
intelligence_dict = {
    "bankAccounts": intelligence.bankAccounts,
    "upiIds": intelligence.upiIds,
    "phishingLinks": intelligence.phishingLinks,
    "phoneNumbers": intelligence.phoneNumbers,
    "suspiciousKeywords": intelligence.suspiciousKeywords
}


payload = {
    "sessionId": session_id,
    "scamDetected": scam_detected,
    "totalMessagesExchanged": total_messages,
    "extractedIntelligence": intelligence_dict,
    "agentNotes": agent_notes
}


response = requests.post(
    "https://hackathon.guvi.in/api/updateHoneyPotFinalResult",
    json=payload,
    timeout=5
)
🧾 Updated One-Line Summary
Build an AI-powered agentic honeypot API that detects scam messages, engages scammers in multi-turn conversations, extracts intelligence, and reports the final result back to the GUVI evaluation endpoint.





Agentic Honey-Pot for Scam Detection & Intelligence Extraction

216/1000 Enrolled

Enrolled

Problem Description

Participants are required to build an AI-powered Agentic Honey-Pot system that detects scam messages and autonomously engages scammers to extract actionable intelligence such as bank account details, UPI IDs, and phishing links through multi-turn conversations.

Problem, Input & Output Guidelines

Participants must strictly adhere to the official problem definition, API input format, and response structure.

Interaction Source: Scam conversations will be simulated using a Mock Scammer API, which sends message events to the participant’s API.

Submission Requirement: Participants must deploy a public API endpoint secured with a user-provided API key.

Agent Handoff: Once scam intent is detected, the system must hand over the interaction to an autonomous AI Agent capable of continuing the conversation independently.

Reference Documentation:

Agentic Honey-Pot – Detailed Problem Guidelines
Objective

Analyze incoming messages to detect scam intent and activate an autonomous AI agent that maintains a believable human persona, engages scammers strategically, and extracts high-value scam intelligence for evaluation and reporting.

Processing Expectations

Accept incoming scam messages via API requests
Support multi-turn conversations using conversation history
Detect scam intent without false exposure
Engage scammers autonomously after detection
Extract and return structured intelligence
Ensure stable responses and low latency
Agent Responsibilities

Maintain realistic and adaptive conversation flow
Use reasoning, memory, and self-correction
Avoid revealing scam detection
Extract bank account numbers, UPI IDs, and phishing URLs
Evaluation & Metrics

Each submission will be evaluated using measurable metrics generated through the Mock Scammer API, including:

Accuracy of scam detection
Engagement duration
Number of conversation turns
Quality and completeness of extracted intelligence
Expected Output Structure

The API response must return a structured JSON output containing scam detection status, engagement metrics, and extracted intelligence in the defined format.




API Endpoint Submission for Evaluation


In this level, participants must submit their deployed API endpoint that implements the selected problem statement. The evaluation system will invoke this endpoint using the provided API key to test the working solution.

Submission Rules & Guidelines

Endpoint Submission Rules

Participants must submit one public API endpoint URL
The endpoint must correspond to the selected problem statement
The endpoint must be live, accessible, and stable during evaluation
Participants must provide a valid API key for authentication
Late or non-working endpoints will not be evaluated


What the Evaluation System Will Do

Send official test inputs to your endpoint
Validate authentication using the API key
Check request handling and response structure
Evaluate the correctness and stability of your solution


Applicable for Both Problems

Problem 1: AI-Generated Voice Detection — Your API must accept audio input and return classification results
Problem 2: Agentic Honey-Pot — Your API must accept scam messages and return extracted intelligence


Evaluation Readiness

Ensure your API handles multiple requests reliably
Ensure correct JSON response format as defined in the problem statement
Ensure low latency and proper error handling


Outcome of This Level

Your endpoint moves to the automated evaluation stage
Results and scores will be generated based on API performance
Starts at:
25 Jan 2026, 12:00:00 AM

Ends at:
05 Feb 2026, 11:59:00 PM



Agentic Honey-Pot – API Endpoint Tester

Active


This Honeypot API Endpoint Tester allows participants to validate whether their deployed honeypot service is reachable, secured, and responding correctly. The tester verifies authentication, endpoint availability, and response behavior using a simple request.

How to Use the Honeypot Endpoint Tester

This tool helps participants verify that their Honeypot API endpoint is properly deployed and secured.

Steps:

Enter your deployed Honeypot API endpoint URL
Provide the required API key in the request header
Click Test Honeypot Endpoint to send the request
What This Tests:

API authentication using headers
Endpoint availability and connectivity
Proper request handling
Response structure and status codes
Basic honeypot behavior validation
Note: This tester is for validation only. The final evaluation will involve automated security interaction scenarios.


Agentic Honey-Pot – API Endpoint Tester
This Honeypot API Endpoint Tester allows participants to validate whether their deployed honeypot service is reachable, secured, and responding correctly. The tester verifies authentication, endpoint availability, and response behavior using a simple request.

Headers *
x-api-key *
Enter x-api-key
Honeypot API Endpoint URL *
Enter honeypot api endpoint url



logo

Be Part of India’s Biggest Hackathon
India AI Impact Buildathon
Participate in the national AI hackathon under India AI Impact Summit 2026.

Register for Free
Benefits Unpacked
What’s in it For You?
₹4,00,000 Prize Pool
Cash rewards for top innovators and disruptors. And a special category for working professionals.

Showcase Your Solution on the National Stage
The qualified teams will get a chance to showcase their solution on the stage of India AI Impact Summit.

Learn First. Build After
First learn AI-led development from top 1% industry experts. Then compete in Buildathon by building your own AI solution.

Gateway to the Summit
Qualified teams get to be part of the India AI Impact Buildathon finale at the national stage of AI Impact Summit 2026.

Official Recognition
Earn a prestigious co-branded certificate from the India AI Impact Summit and HCL GUVI

Network with the Elite
Connect with the country's brightest problem solvers and form a formidable professional network

Register for Free
Participation Criteria
Who Can Join This Nationwide Buildathon?
If you love problem solving & the idea of building meaningful stuff; the registration is open for you.


Working Professionals

Professionals from any domain who want to stay relevant in AI-Driven future, build proof of work & solve problems that create impact.


Graduates 

Degree holders looking to show their practical skills & build a professional network that helps career growth.

.


Students

Curious students who want to go beyond classrooms, explore real-world challenges, and start thinking like builders.


Open to All

No prior hackathon experience required. If you have the intent to learn, build, and create impact, you’re welcome to participate.

Register for Free
A 4-step Journey You’ll Follow
India AI Buildathon Flow & Timeline

Date: 19 January

Hackathon Goes Live:

Participate in a team of 2-4 members. Learn AI-led development from industry experts. Build & submit your prototype.




Date: 5th February

Submit Your Prototype

Your submitted prototype gets evaluated by a team of experts.     


Date: 10th February

Shortlist Announcement

Based on submissions, top teams will be selected & announced.


.


Date: 16th February

Final Event & Grand Showcase

Qualified teams get entry into the AI Impact Summit 2026 event and present their solutions on the national stage. 

Register for Free
Solve What Matters
The Problem Statement of 1.4 B+ Scale
India Is Facing a Fraud Crisis. You build an AI solution that stops it.


5,00,000+ Scam Calls

Flood India every day


₹60+ Crore Lost

To fraudulent calls daily


3+ Spam Calls

Per citizen, per day

Solve Problem of Your Choice

Challenge 1
Build an AI-powered audio call analyzer that: 
Detects spam and fraud calls in real time
Analyses audio patterns, keywords, and behaviour
Alerts users instantly to potential threats
Challenge 2
Build an Agentic AI Honeypot System that
User can hand-off the interaction to, once the scam is detected
Keeps scammers engaged using a realistic human persona
Extracts bank details, UPI IDs & phishing links for law enforcement
Grand Finale. National Venue.
Final Showdown Venue
Present your solutions at the Dr Ambedkar International Centre, New Delhi: one of India’s most prestigious national venues.


Get National Visibility:

You get a chance to present your work on the national stage of India's biggest AI Event.


Build Professional Network

Network with India’s brightest minds and AI experts to form a professional network that helps you grow.


Build Proof of Work:

Learn AI-led development. Build your own AI product & position yourself as an AI-first talent to recruiters.


Register for Free
Win. Impact. Transform.
Prize Pool & Recognition on National Stage
Winning teams receive prize money, co-branded certificate from India AI Impact Summit & HCL GUVI This Buildathon also features a separate category for working professionals ensuring level competition field & rewards.

Prize Pool
₹4,00,000
Register For Free
THE ORGANISERS 
About HCL GUVI

HCL GUVI is a leading industry-focused upskilling platform, and a part of prestigious HCL Group. Through initiatives like the India AI Buildathon, HCL GUVI is committed to enabling builders, innovators, and problem-solvers to become future ready.

4
M+
Global Learners

10000
+
Career Transitions

1000
+
Hiring Partners

2
Guinness World Records

16
+
Learn in Language

Register for Free
HELP & SUPPORT
FAQ
Who can participate in the India AI Buildathon?
The buildathon is open to students, graduates, and working professionals from across India. No prior hackathon experience is required.

Can I participate solo or only in teams?
You cannot participate solo. You can participate in teams of minimum 2 members and maximum 4 members.

Is there any registration fee?
No. Participation is free for all eligible participants.

What will I build during the hackathon?
Participants will build an AI-powered audio call analysis solution that detects spam or fraud calls and alerts users in real time.

How are teams evaluated?
Submissions are evaluated based on:

Problem understanding
Feasibility and design approach
Responsible AI considerations
Clarity of solution and pitch
What do shortlisted teams get?
Top 250 teams get:

Entry to the India AI Impact Summit 2026 venue
Opportunity to present on a national stage
India AI Impact Summit backed recognition and certificates
Prize pool of 4,00,000
Opportunity to network with India’s brightest minds
Will all participants receive certificates?
Yes. All participants receive participation certificates. Winning teams receive special recognition from the India AI Impact Summit & HCL GUVI.

Where will the final event take place?
The Grand Finale will be hosted at the Dr Ambedkar International Centre, New Delhi, during the India AI Impact Summit 2026.

Join the India AI impact Buildathon
Register for Free
